# Mini-graphical update

This release expands the graphical capabilities of Way Cooler, adding core features such as borders and bar support while also paving the way for more advanced features such as notifications.

This is also the first release with a binary attached. It is an x86_64 ready-to-run version of Way Cooler statically linked to the latest wlc release (0.0.8).

## New Configuration format
- The configuration format has changed significantly. **This is a backward incompatible change**. Please see the example configuration for more information.
- In short, values must now be part of a category (e.g, no longer `border_size` it's `way_cooler.windows = { borders = { size = 20 } }`, for example).
- `config` object has been merged into `way_cooler`.

## X11 Bar support
- Added support for X11 bars, such as `polybar` and `lemonbar`
- To enable, set the `x11_bar` variable under the `programs` category to the name of the window that the bar spawns (e.g, `bar` when running lemonbar as `lemonbar -n "bar"`
- Support for more integrated bars will come in a later version.

## Borders
- Added compositor/server side borders. 
- Size and active/inactive color configurable through configuration option.
  - Color specified as a hexadecimal number
- Title bars are also independently configurable, e.g they have their own size and colors.

## Gaps
- Added gap support between windows. You can think of these as transparent borders.

## D-Bus
- Commands now block when locking the layout tree. This means that commands should fail much less often especially when in a tight loop.
- Added `ActiveWorkspace` command to get the name of the current workspace.

## Bug Fixes
- Context menus should stop disappearing/crashing the program. 
  - Note that they may not be positioned correctly, this will be fixed in a later patch.
- Floating windows will now properly become fullscreen.
- Defaulting to the pre-compiled configuration file is now much more obvious in the log.
- Floating windows should now no longer snap back to their position.
- Lua thread listener should now no longer die when restarting and having a bad config.
- Floating a window in a sub container should no longer cause a crash.
- The background should now resize when the output changes resolution.
