# Full i3 tiling, scrot-support, lock-screen support, redshift-support, multi-head output support, and of course bug fixes

This has been, by far, the biggest release for Way Cooler. I'd lie if I said this was a result of feature creep. There were actually features I removed in favour of a later release (namely #273 and #138) just so I could get this one out of the door.

Way Cooler has come a long way. If you want to learn more about what has changed please read this release, the linked issues, the [up-to-date README](https://github.com/way-cooler/way-cooler/blob/master/README.md), look at [our fancy new website](http://way-cooler.org), and finally look at the fancy pictures I have attached that I took while developing these features.

If you'd like to download Way Cooler, the best way is through the download page on the site: http://way-cooler.org/download

Going forward, more attention is going to be paid to the Lua and D-Bus API. There's going to be some huge changes, but there will be stabilization happening not soon after that in order to encourage the development of client programs for Way Cooler. Once that is done, I will finally get started on writing the last really needed client program for Way Cooler: the top bar.


## Redshift support
#201 #285 
Contrary to popular belief, you *can* use Wayland with redshift :wink:. Way Cooler now works with a [patched version of redshift](https://github.com/giucam/redshift). To specify for it to work, simply specify `redshift -m wayland` and it will work just as it did before.

This is the same way Sway does it, and if you want this to become mainstream I suggest talking to the maintainers of redshift in order to get this merged into upstream.

## Multi-head output
#297  #64 
Finally, finally Way Cooler now supports multiple monitors. It doesn't yet support hotplugging, due to a bug in wlc, however if you start Way Cooler with multiple monitors plugged in they will properly be assigned and used.

## Scrot-like program
#171 
There's a new program in the growing repository for Way Cooler, [wc-grab](https://github.com/way-cooler/way-cooler-grab). This is a fairly simple program that emulates scrot somewhat. It takes a screenshot of the current active output and dumps it to a file. By default, it dumps it to `screenshot.png`, but that can be controlled with the `-o` flag. 

See `wc-grab --help` for more information.

## Lockscreen support
#279 
Way Cooler now supports lock screens as of #279. In order to lock the screen, in the Lua file you simply specify which program should be used. When the appropriate keybinding is pressed, Way Cooler locks down and puts the client program front and center. Once the client program closes (either gracefully or not), control is returned to the user.

I have made [wc-lock](https://github.com/way-cooler/way-cooler-lock) as a simple implementation of a lock screen for Way Cooler. It uses PAM to authenticate, so once the program is spawned the user simply has to type in their password and hit enter in order to return to the normal operation.

## Basic mode support
#299 
Related to lock screen support, basic modes have been added to Way Cooler. There are three so far:
1) Default - just like before
2) Locked - when a lockscreen is active
3) Custom - Everything runs as in default, but for every wlc callback a custom Lua function can be invoked

For more information, see the attached issue #299 .

## Tabbed/Stacked tiling support
#301 #163 
Way Cooler now has tabbed/stacked tiling support, just like i3/sway does. This is the last i3-related feature that is plan to be added. If more would like to be added, I suggest either sending a patch or letting your voice heard why a certain feature should be ported as well.

## Container borders
Related to tabbed/stacked tiling, nested containers now have borders drawn around them, making it much easier to see where nested containers are without guessing from the way the windows are laid out.

## Bug fixes
* Can no longer remove root container in workspaces #280 
* Fixed duplicate active number crash #276 
* Background now uses output geometry #291 
* Fixed issues when gaps were enabled #289 
